# Master_Dissertation
 
ABSTRACT

The telecom industry is transitioning away from a "horizontal" service delivery model in which services are specified independently of their customers’ needs and heading towards a "vertical" service delivery model in which services are targeted to particular industry segments and verticals. To make this transition possible, a robust end-to-end 5G infrastructure is needed, with technologies able to serve the various vertical industries' use cases. A crucial element of this architecture is the integration of network slicing over a single infrastructure to provide incredibly diverse vertical services, as well as a network slicing management framework capable of managing several slices concurrently. In this study, comprehensive discussion is provided on concept and system architecture of network slicing with particular focus on its business aspect and how Control, User, Management and Orchestration Planes are addressed. A number of organizations are focusing on standardizing the design structures and interfaces needed for integrating a large number of components into a functional structure that can be applied within provider/operator systems based on a variety of business models and use cases. Furthermore, a thorough overview of a prototype is being presented which is capable of deploying the slices needed by the various vertical players and providing them with a user-friendly interface to handle their slice. The proposed product integrates additional modules to include improved management and orchestration and control capabilities, as well as a potential end-to-end testing platform, and expands on current standardization activities. Concluding with open research directions and existing challenges like Radio protocol stack disaggregation, Over-the-Top application disaggregation into microservices, the IP perspective of network slicing and operation and service assurance considerations with the purpose of motivating new advances and adding realistic remarks to this emerging technology.

SUBJECT AREA: Telecommunications

KEYWORDS: 5G SDN NFV Network slicing Cloud/edge computing Network Softwarization OpenSlice Network Management